Well, we've got this ticket created, listener.
And right now it's looking pretty good.
But before we consider this thing to really be complete, I want to take a look at a diagram that we
looked at a very long time ago inside this course.
So this is a diagram that we looked at when we started this ticketing application.
We listed out some things that were really painful from that first application or the blog app that
we had worked on.
And we had said that one of the big challenges around the blog application was that it was really hard
to remember what properties an event should have.
In addition, I didn't really show it on this diagram, but it was sometimes also challenging for us
to remember the actual names of those different events as well.
Back on that first application.
Well, it turns out that both those panes are actually going to be present with our current implementation
of this listener.
Let me show you how.
As a quick example, I want to try to console.log out some properties in this data object right here.
Remember, this data object is going to be whatever we had published inside of our publisher file.
So essentially this data object, that data object is essentially a ticket and on a ticket.
Well, remember, I think we have property names such as the name of the ticket and the cost.
So let's try to do a console log of data name and a console.log of data cost and hey, wait a minute,
tickets don't have a name property and they also don't have a cost.
If we go back over to the publisher, file tickets, have a title and a price.
That is the actual data that we are publishing over this subject right here or on this channel.
And so that's just a very quick example of a problem we really ran into back on that first application.
It was kind of challenging to keep in mind the names of these different properties when we eventually
receive those events somewhere else.
Right now, inside of our listener, we have absolutely nothing to verify that we are accessing properties
that actually exist on this data object.
And what's more, we also don't have anything to verify that we entered the name of this event or the
subject right here correctly.
So we could have accidentally typed something like ticket.
Read it with a capital T and a capital C.
This is a totally different channel as far as Nats is concerned.
So even though it's you and I, this might look correct.
Well, our listener would not work correctly.
So at this point, I think that we need to figure out some way to make use of TypeScript or something
else to make sure that the subject we write out right here and the data that we receive inside of on
message actually matches up to some degree.
So I'll show you a couple of diagrams to help you understand how we're going to write in some code using
TypeScript that's going to make sure that we've got a valid subject and a valid type of data flowing
into on message.
Okay.
So the first thing I want us to really recognize here is that for all the different subjects inside
of our application, there's always going to be a very strongly typed and kind of singly singular structure
of event data that's going to go along with it.
So in other words, if we have a subject of ticket colon created, I would expect to always have some
data tied to that event of an idea that's a string, a title that's a string and a price.
That's a number.
We do not yet really have an event of type order colon updated yet, but we can kind of imagine that
if we did, maybe we would expect along with that event, we would expect to have some data of maybe
ID that's a string user ID and ticket ID as well.
So it's very clear that there is a very strong mapping or a very close pairing between the subject and
the actual properties that are contained within the accompanying event itself.
So what would be really nice is when we put together this ticket created listener.
If there is some way that we could tell TypeScript that we want to specify Ticket Colon created as a
subject and because we specified ticket Colon created the data property right here should be of type
ID that's a string title.
It's the string and price that is a number.
It would be really fantastic if we could get TypeScript to somehow recognize this relationship.
So in other words, I want to be able to write in something right here, like ticket.
Created.
And by just writing that in, I want TypeScript to yield, to validate and make sure that we are receiving
the correct type of data right here as the first argument to on message.
So that would be really fantastic to have and that's what we're going to try to do.
Likewise, it would be really nice if we accidentally entered in order colon updated as the subject
inside of the listener.
It'd be nice if TypeScript recognized and said, Hey, wait a minute, your event data is not going
to be ID that's a string title and string and price.
That's a number because you put in order colon updated right here.
Instead, it would be something totally different.
Your event data would be user ID, ticket ID and ID and so on.
So again, I want TypeScript to somehow validate this pairing of the subject or listing and this type
of this data argument to on message.
So that's our goal.
That's what we're going to try to do.
Now, we can definitely do this with TypeScript.
The downside is that it's going to involve a little bit of slightly complicated code.
As usual, it always does.
Right?
I mean, nothing is free in life can require just a little bit of nasty code.
Having said that, put in a little bit of work to understand this is definitely going to pay off because
it's going to make it really much harder for us to write out an incorrect subject right there or try
to accept some kind of invalid type of data into on message.
Okay.
So with all this in mind, with this goal in mind, let's take a pause right here and figure out how
we can teach TypeScript to do this check for us.